notes/terms.md, before:

[A](#A)
[B](#B)
[C](#C)
[D](#D)
[E](#E)
[F](#F)
[G](#G)
[H](#H)
[I](#I)
[J](#J)
[K](#K)
[L](#L)
[M](#M)
[N](#N)
[O](#O)
[P](#P)
[Q](#Q)
[R](#R)
[S](#S)
[T](#T)
[U](#U)
[V](#V)
[W](#W)
[X](#X)
[Y](#Y)
[Z](#Z)

# A
Activation function

# B
Borel-measurable function

Bag-of-words (BOW)

Brown-Forsythe test

    A statistical test ...

# C
Convolutional neural network

Cost-function (Loss-function)

Continous bag-of-words (CBOW)

Cross-validation

Conditional random field (CRF)

Chunking

    A sequence labeling task

# D
Data annotation

Dropout

    A technique used to randomly remove som data from the training input to achieve better generalization

Dense   
    
    Descriptions of vector. Refering to a superior number of non-zero element values. Opposite of Sparse.

Deep Neural Network

    A neural network containing more than 1 layer

# E
Encoder-decoder models (conditioned-generation models)

Embedding matricies

Event Detection

    A sequence labelling task

# F
Factors of variation

Features

    In general an entry of the input vector.
    In NNM for NLP: A concrete linguistic input such as a word, suffix or part-of-speech tag.

Feed-forward netword

F1-score

    A statistical analysis score used in binary classification to measure a test's accuracy.
    The score is calculated based on the precision and the recall of the test. 
    A score of 1 is perfect, a score of 0 is the worst.
    Calculated as follows: F1 = 2 * (precision * recall)/(precision + recall)

# G
Gradient Descent

Gold segmentation

    ???

Guassian distribution (Normal distribution)

# H
Hidden Layer

Hyper-parameters

    Parameters not found by the learning algorithm, but set by developers.
    eg. Hypothesis class, lambda in regularization term, learning rate

# I
Input vector

Input vector entry (in common a feature)

# K
Kernel 

Kernel Trick

# L
Linear

    Describes form of a function or equation. The function consists of terms where variables are multiplied by a scalar.

Learning rate

Log frequency

    The logarithmic frequency of a word in the corpus. eg. if a word appears 10 times the log frequency of the word is 2. (1 + log 10)
    The goal is to make the differency between say 1 and 10 more significant than 1 million and 2 million

# M
Multi-layer perceptrons (MLP)

Markov Assumption

    The assumption that one only needs to look at a current state, not states leading up to it, to predict future states.

# N
Non-Linear

    Description of functions or equations which are not linear.

Neural Network

Named Entity Recognition (NER)

    A sequence labeling task

# O
Output vector

Out-of-vocabulary (OOV)

# P
Proper Evaluation 

Part-of-Speech (POS)


# R
Recurrent/recursive Neural Network

Regularization

# S
Sparse

    Descriptions of vector. Refering to a superior number of zero element values. Opposite of Dense.

Stochastic Gradient Descent

    Gradient descent method where only a subset of the training data is used at a time to calculate the updating gradient.
    The training data is usually reused over multiple iteration and shuffled between each one.
    

# T
Test data / Test set

    The data used by the model to learn it's task.

Training data / Held-out set

    The data set ultimately used to evaluate how good a model is. 
    This data should only be used after the model is complete and no further changes are planned. 
    ie. the data should not be used to make decisions on how to change the model.

Transpose

Trigrams'n'Tags (TnT)

    An efficient statistical part-of-speech tagger

# U

Universal dependencies

    A large collection of training/test data for a wide variety of languages
    https://universaldependencies.org/


# V
Validation data / Development set 

    Training data meant to evaluate how well the model is at generalizing.
    The data is not used to train on, but is used by the developers to tweak the model.

Commit message:

Add definition for gold standard data

notes/terms.md, after:

[A](#A)
[B](#B)
[C](#C)
[D](#D)
[E](#E)
[F](#F)
[G](#G)
[H](#H)
[I](#I)
[J](#J)
[K](#K)
[L](#L)
[M](#M)
[N](#N)
[O](#O)
[P](#P)
[Q](#Q)
[R](#R)
[S](#S)
[T](#T)
[U](#U)
[V](#V)
[W](#W)
[X](#X)
[Y](#Y)
[Z](#Z)

# A
Activation function

# B
Borel-measurable function

Bag-of-words (BOW)

Brown-Forsythe test

    A statistical test ...

# C
Convolutional neural network

Cost-function (Loss-function)

Continous bag-of-words (CBOW)

Cross-validation

Conditional random field (CRF)

Chunking

    A sequence labeling task

# D
Data annotation

Dropout

    A technique used to randomly remove som data from the training input to achieve better generalization

Dense   
    
    Descriptions of vector. Refering to a superior number of non-zero element values. Opposite of Sparse.

Deep Neural Network

    A neural network containing more than 1 layer

# E
Encoder-decoder models (conditioned-generation models)

Embedding matricies

Event Detection

    A sequence labelling task

# F
Factors of variation

Features

    In general an entry of the input vector.
    In NNM for NLP: A concrete linguistic input such as a word, suffix or part-of-speech tag.

Feed-forward netword

F1-score

    A statistical analysis score used in binary classification to measure a test's accuracy.
    The score is calculated based on the precision and the recall of the test. 
    A score of 1 is perfect, a score of 0 is the worst.
    Calculated as follows: F1 = 2 * (precision * recall)/(precision + recall)

# G
Gradient Descent

Gold Standard Data

    "High quality data which is more or less as close as you can get to the ground truth" 
    https://stats.stackexchange.com/questions/296828/what-is-the-meaning-of-gold-data 

Gold segmentation

    ???

Guassian distribution (Normal distribution)

# H
Hidden Layer

Hyper-parameters

    Parameters not found by the learning algorithm, but set by developers.
    eg. Hypothesis class, lambda in regularization term, learning rate

# I
Input vector

Input vector entry (in common a feature)

# K
Kernel 

Kernel Trick

# L
Linear

    Describes form of a function or equation. The function consists of terms where variables are multiplied by a scalar.

Learning rate

Log frequency

    The logarithmic frequency of a word in the corpus. eg. if a word appears 10 times the log frequency of the word is 2. (1 + log 10)
    The goal is to make the differency between say 1 and 10 more significant than 1 million and 2 million

# M
Multi-layer perceptrons (MLP)

Markov Assumption

    The assumption that one only needs to look at a current state, not states leading up to it, to predict future states.

# N
Non-Linear

    Description of functions or equations which are not linear.

Neural Network

Named Entity Recognition (NER)

    A sequence labeling task

# O
Output vector

Out-of-vocabulary (OOV)

# P
Proper Evaluation 

Part-of-Speech (POS)


# R
Recurrent/recursive Neural Network

Regularization

# S
Sparse

    Descriptions of vector. Refering to a superior number of zero element values. Opposite of Dense.

Stochastic Gradient Descent

    Gradient descent method where only a subset of the training data is used at a time to calculate the updating gradient.
    The training data is usually reused over multiple iteration and shuffled between each one.
    

# T
Test data / Test set

    The data used by the model to learn it's task.

Training data / Held-out set

    The data set ultimately used to evaluate how good a model is. 
    This data should only be used after the model is complete and no further changes are planned. 
    ie. the data should not be used to make decisions on how to change the model.

Transpose

Trigrams'n'Tags (TnT)

    An efficient statistical part-of-speech tagger

# U

Universal dependencies

    A large collection of training/test data for a wide variety of languages
    https://universaldependencies.org/


# V
Validation data / Development set 

    Training data meant to evaluate how well the model is at generalizing.
    The data is not used to train on, but is used by the developers to tweak the model.
