
# Project agreement - NLP bachelor

## Problem definition

The project will test the performance of neural network models solving different
sequence labelling tasks (such as POS tagging, named entity recognition and
others) with regards to accuracy and efficiency. The project will test the
effects of using models with bidirectional LSTM and CRF layers and how these
models perfom when implemented in tree different ML-frameworks (PyTorch,
TensorFlow and DyNet). The project will also conduct its test across a number of
different natural languages.


## Method

We will study relevant and modern theory on machine learning and natural
language processing, with a special emphasis on deep learning and neural
networks. This will include litterature, online material (text and video) and
occasional lectures.

We will collect data sets for testing and training a series of machine learning
models. We will compare the results of the tests by conducting systematic
analysis and documenting our steps along the way.

We will utilize three Python-based ML-frameworks - TensorFlow, PyTorch and DyNet -
with the aim of creating ML-models for efficient solving of sequence labelling
tasks.


## Timeline

The project will span 3 and half month beginning with the submission of this
project agreement on February 2nd and ending with submission of the project
report and associated code on May 15th.

The project will be divided into 4 phases, that roughly corresponds to each
calendar month of the project period:

During the first phase (February), we will mainly spend time on aquiring the
necessary theoretical knowledge by studying litterature and other sources of
information. This also includes gaining first hand experience with the
frameworks in question by working through tutorials and small excersises in NLP
and machine learning.

During the second phase (March), we will design and construct our first set of 
experiments using the knowledge we acquired in the first phase. This also
requires us to gather appropriate data sets aswell as meticously recording and
analyzing our results.

The third phase will take place during most of April. Here, we will conduct
another set of experiments in which we expand the theoretical methods and
techniques used and does empirical studies into how different configurations of
our models work on different data sets.

In the final phase (late April and first half of May) we will concern ourself
with concluding about our results and analysis. Furthermore, we will describe
how the research we have done could be continued, ie. which issues haven't we
been able to solve, which potential improvements could be made to models, etc.

During all phases, we will be meeting with our supervisor on a somewhat regular
basis aswell writing a report on our work. The report writing will intensify as
we get closer to the end of the project.
